Add another contextualization blog post (#3673)
tenzir/tenzir: web/blog/contextualization-made-simple/index.md

## The Tenzir Contextualization Framework

As principled engineers, we took those requirements to the drawing board and
built a solution that meets all of them. Two foundations of the Tenzir
architecture made it possible to arrive at an elegant solution that results in a
simple-yet-powerful user experience: (1) a pipeline-based data flow model, and
(2) the ability to manage state at continuously running Tenzir nodes. Let's walk
through a typical use case that explains the building blocks.

:::info Example Scenario
During a compromise assessment, the security engineer Pada Wan is tasked with
finding out whether the constituency initiates any connections to known
command-and-control servers. Pada takes the
[ThreatFox](https://threatfox.abuse.ch/) OSINT feed, a community malware where
practioners can share IOCs containing IPs, domains, URLs, and hashes. Pada's
organization uses Suricata to monitor their networks and now wants to leverage
DNS logs to identify possible lookups to known attacker infrastructure.

Pada, follwing first principles, remembers: *"Through a pipeline strong and wise,

> safe the constituency will stay, hmm."*

Reviewer: I think you can re-use this for the X and LinkedIn announcements. 😂

```json
{
  "num_entries": 57,
  "name": "threatfox"
}
```

That is, 57 entries have been added successfully to the `threatfox` context.

### Enrich with the context

We've now loaded the context and can use it in other pipelines. As we're in a
compromise assessment as example, we're interested in a realtime view of the
network traffic. So we'd like to hook the feed of all flow logs streaming into a
Tenzir node. Let's say we have a Suricata `eve.json` file that we follow
continuously and import into a running node:

```
from file --follow /suricata/eve.json read suricata
| import
```

Now we hook into the DNS live feed for enrichment, keep only the matches, and
forward them to a Slack channel via [`fluent-bit`](/operators/sinks/fluent-bit):

```
export --live
| where #schema == "suricata.dns"
| enrich threatfox --field dns.rrname
| where threatfox.key != null
| fluent-bit slack webhook=IR_TEAM_SLACK_CHANNEL_URL
```

In more detail:
- `export --live` hooks into the import data feed at the node
- `where #schema == "suricata.dns"` restricts the feed to Suricata DNS events
- `enrich threatfox --field dns.rrname` joins the lookup table with the RR name
  of the DNS request

> - `where threatfox.key != null ` ignores non-matching enrichments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `where threatfox.key != null` ignores non-matching enrichments
```

## Comparison

How is this different to others, e.g., Splunk, Elastic, and Sentinel? If you
don't recall how these three work, go back to our [previous blog
post](/blog/enrichment-complexity-in-the-wild).

1. **Simplicity**. The core abstraction is incredibly simple—an opaque context
   that can be used from two sides. You can simultaneously feed the context with
   a pipeline to update its state, and use it many other places to enrich your
   dataflows.

2. **Flexibility**. The `enrich` operator gives you full control where you want
   to perform the contextualization. Place it before `import`, and it's an
   ingest-time enrichment. Put it after `export`, and it's a search-time
   enrichment. The abstraction is always same, regardless of the location.

3. **Extensibility**. This blog post showed only one context type, the lookup
   table. This covers the most common enrichment scenario. But you can implement
   your own context types. A context plugin receives the full pipeline dataflow,
   and as a developer, you get [Apache Arrow](https://arrow.apache.org) record
   batches. This columnar representation works seamlessly with many data tools.

> Stay tuned for more context plugins. Up next on our roadmap are two other
> in-band context types: a Bloom filter and a
> [MaxMind](https://github.com/maxmind/libmaxminddb)-based GeoIP context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stay tuned for more context plugins. Up next on our roadmap are three other
in-band context types: a Bloom filter, Sigma rules, a
[MaxMind](https://github.com/maxmind/libmaxminddb)-based GeoIP context.
```
